Reorganize and update Getting Started documentation (#11)
curvenote/docs: getting-started/create-article-cli.md

---
title: Write Your First Article
short_title: Write Article
---

# Write Your First Article

**Goal:** Create and edit your first article in Curvenote using the CLI.  

## 1. Create a New Article

From inside your project folder, run:

```bash
curvenote create article my-first-article
```

This will:

- Create a new Markdown file in your `content/` directory.
- Add default frontmatter (metadata) like `title` and `date`.
- Link the article into your site navigation if your `curvenote.yml` is set up.

Example folder after running the command:

```
content/
├── index.md
└── my-first-article.md

> ```

Author: This command does not exist. You just create new articles in your preferred text editor.

## 2. Open and Edit Your Article

Open the new file in your preferred text editor:

```bash

> code content/my-first-article.md

Author: Is `code` familiar enough to our researcher audience to use as an example of a text editor? I don't know.

We could also just remove this example. Hopefully users know how to use their preferred text editor.

```

> You can write in **Markdown**, **MyST**, or embed Jupyter code blocks if your project supports it.

Author: ```suggestion
You can write in **MyST Markdown** or use **Jupyter Notebooks**.
```

All Curvenote/MyST projects support embedding Jupyter code blocks - we don't want to make this sound like an opt-in thing.

Example content:

```markdown
---
title: My First Curvenote Article
authors:
  - name: Jane Doe
    orcid: 0000-0001-2345-6789
---

# Introduction

This is my first article written in Curvenote! 🎉

## My First Figure

> ```{figure} assets/fig1.png

Author: ````suggestion
```{figure} ../assets/fig1.png
````

If we are presuming `content/` and `assets/` folders, this would be the relative path.

:alt: Example figure
:width: 60%
```
Figure caption goes here.

## 3. Preview Locally

See your changes instantly by running:

```bash

> curvenote preview

Author: ```suggestion
curvenote start
```

```

This opens a local preview of your site in your browser so you can check formatting, figures, and links.

## 4. Organize Your Articles

Best practices for keeping articles manageable:

- Use short, descriptive file names.
- Group related content into folders (e.g., `methods/`, `results/`).
- Keep figures, datasets, and large media files in an `assets/` folder.

> 

Author: We probably do not want to repeat this section on this page and the previous page. Repetition means things will get out of sync (the lists already do not match). Instead, we should probably just write this list in one place and link to it in the other place.
